---
title: Version 0.5
---

February 15, 2022

It's been a while since our last public release! We've entered public beta,
switched to shipping a single universal .app, and added a bunch of fixes and
improvements.

This release saw some major breaking changes from previous versions, in part
because we built some stuff to make ensure future releases are
backward-compatible. If you were previously using CodePerfect, please
re-download the latest package from the
[website](https://codeperfect95.com/download).

## Self-contained app

The MacOS app is now a self-contained app (CodePerfect.app) that you download.
Previously users had to use an install script to download their license and
configure Go paths. Now you enter your license inside the UI, and the app
detects Go paths automatically.

We've also combined the Intel and Apple Silicon builds into a single
[universal binary](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/apple-silicon/building-a-universal-macos-binary).

## Public beta &amp; free trial

CodePerfect is now out of private beta and in public beta! You can now visit the
website to download CodePerfect for a free 7-day trial as well as purchase a
license key. You no longer need to contact and wait for us to use

## Fixes and improvements

- Fixed bug where a file called imgui.ini was getting written to the opened
  directory.

- Added loading indicator when Generate Implementation and Go To Symbol. Also
  limited fuzzy search to 1,000 items at a time, fixing the lag when there were
  too many matches.

- Cursor is now moved to the correct location when Generate Implementation
  automatically adds imports.

- Fixed a bug/potential crash when a file is deleted through the File Explorer.

- Fixed a bug/potential crash when the last build or debug profile was selected
  and deleted.

- Running the command to open various windows (e.g. Find References, etc.) now
  focuses the window if it was already open.

- Improved cursor jumping for Jump to Definition to make the jump less jarring
  and more intuitive.

- When triggering a build, the Build Results window is now brought to the
  foreground but not focused. This allows you to continue editing your file
  without having focus taken away.

- When initiating a build, the build profile name is now printed in the build
  output.

- Improved mouse wheel scrolling in editor.

- Disabled Save File entirely for unmodifiable files.

- Previously CodePerfect shipped with a file called `dynamic_helper.go` to
  assist with Go &lt;&gt; C++ interop. However, all it was really doing was
  performing tasks requiring access to the platform-specific
  [build context](https://pkg.go.dev/go/build#Context). We've replaced this file
  with a `buildcontext.go` that just dumps out the context.

- Released new file format for project and global settings. This is a versioned,
  backward-compatible format &mdash; CodePerfect no longer destroys your
  settings every time the format changes.

- Generate Implementation now generates struct and interface literal types
  correctly.

- When your go.mod file changes, CodePerfect now automatically rescans for new
  packages. (Previously, this was the one case requiring manual user input to
  rescan the index.)
