---
title: Release 22.09.3
---

Setember 22, 2022

This release consists of further bugfixes and improvements.

- Disabled automatically selecting imports from the autocomplete menu when a `.`
  is typed. This was proving to result in more false positives (unwanted
  imports) than time saved.

- The autocomplete menu now has two menu modes, Basic and Full. Basic only shows
  defined identifiers. Full shows everything in the basic menu, plus potential
  imports from the entire index, allowing you to auto import new packages.

  This fixes the previous problem of potential imports crowding the autocomplete
  menu with a lot of noise.

  To switch between the two modes, press the Alt key while autocomplete is open.

- When the autocomplete menu is opened without first typing any prefix, keywords
  and builtins are now hidden. This is so that the autocomplete menu can serve
  purely as a list of defined identifiers when you open it at any time, without
  being diluted by noise.

- Added option to enable/disable inserting a `(` after autocompleting a `func`
  type.

- Made fuzzy search fully case insensitive. Before, lowercase queries were case
  insensitives, but uppercase queries required an uppercase match.

- Fixed a bug in Rename Identifier that caused a crash.

- Added Toggle Comment. You can now run the Toggle Comment command, or press
  `Cmd+Alt+/`, to toggle comment on a selected block of code (visual
  selection in Vim mode). If no selection is made, it toggles comment on the
  current line.

- Fixed Generate Function so that it only tries to generate code in the current
  workspace.
