---
title: Release 22.10.2
---

October 26, 2022

This release consists mostly of bugfixes. We're trying to reach stability for
our next somewhat public release.

- Fixed URLs not being opened in browser correctly.

- Improve Neovim integration by buffering reads from Neovim process, speeding up
  large operations.

- Fixed bug where error list wasn't being activated and files weren't being saved
  when running individual build profiles through the Command Palette.

- Made most popup dialogs closeable by pressing Escape.

- Applied a number of fixes and undefined behavior patches in an attempt to fix
  a persistent, long-running bug where a crash is caused by corrupted memory.
  Hoping this fixes it.

- Added a view when no editors are open to show the user some common operations
  and their hotkeys.

- Fixed assert failures not generating crash reports. Incidentally, crash
  reports can be accessed via Console.app on Mac. We're in the process of adding
  either automatic crash reporting, or some easy way for you to press a button
  to manually report the last crash.

- Fixed crash in the indexer caused by failing to check a NULL pointer.

- Fixed single-frame flicker when file explorer is opened and closed.

- Improved Tree-Based Navigation. Now, Up and Left both move to the previous
  sibling, and Down and Right both move to the next sibling. This is make the
  experience more intuitive &mdash; for instance, when walking through a list of
  parameters, Left/Right feel much more natural.

  To move to the parent or child, Shift+Up/Left and Shift+Down/Right are used.

  In addition, `gt` in Vim mode now activates Tree-Based Navigation, and
  pressing `x`, `c`, or `s` behave intuitively on the selected node when
  Vim-mode is enabled

- Fixed a crash relating to the debugger.
