---
title: Release 22.11
---

November 20, 2022

- Removed the Basic and Full modes for the autocomplete menu.

  The original motivation behind the modes was that sometimes when you opened
  the menu without typing anything, it would show a bunch of irrelevant,
  distracting results. The Basic menu was supposed to show you the "immediately
  useful" stuff, such as locally declared variables and imports, and the "full"
  menu was supposed to give you the "wild guess" stuff.

  Now there's just one menu, with intelligent sorting to give you the most
  relevant results, while still leaving the other results accessible through
  fuzzy seach. It now weights items according to a bunch of different factors,
  such as context, locality, length of prefix, type of item, and so on.

- Fixed bug relating to files with DOS line endings.

- Added unified keyboard navigation to a number of windows. All windows containing
  results can now be navigated using arrow keys. Windows without a text box to
  capture input can also be navigated with the `h` `j` `k` `l` keys.

- Improved existing keyboard navigation on File Explorer and Search. Results can
  now be collapsed. Pressing `Left`/`Right` on a folder or collapsible will
  close/open it. Press Enter on a folder or collapsible toggles it.
- Fixed various crashes.

- Changed the debugger to focus the CodePerfect window when a breakpoint is hit.
  This helps when debugging GUI-based applications. To prevent it from hijacking
  your window focus, it will only focus if the current window belongs to the
  process of the application being debugged.

- Handle crashes by generating a simple, anonymous crash report and sending it
  to the server. The crash report contains a simple backtrace of the call stack
  along with what platform and version you're running, and does not contain
  anything about your files, code, or any other inforamtion.

  The whole thing can be disabled in Settings > Privacy.

- Fixed struct tag generation to handle strings of capital letters. Before, for
  the identifier `GetHTMLName` it would generate `get_h_t_m_l_name`. Now it
  correctly generates `get_html_name`.

- Added ability to select a file manually with the OS file dialog (File > Open
  File... or `Primary+O`). For now, this is also a workaround for you to edit
  .gitignored files (they don't show up in File Explorer or Go To File).

- Added ability to increase the global UI/text size (View > Zoom). This helps if
  the text looks tiny or humongous on your monitor, or you just prefer a
  different magnification level.

- Fixed rendering of rounded corners, removing artifacts that were previously
  visible.

- Increase the font rendering quality for the UI. The text should appear
  noticeably crisper now.

- Display methods as `<type>.<method>` instead of just `<method>` in the Find
  References window.
