---
title: Release 23.06
---

June 5, 2023

It's been a few months since the last release, but we've been busy, and shipped
several things:

- **A native rewrite of our Vim keybindings.** Previously, we were basically
  integrating Neovim using their API. This worked well enough 95% of the time,
  but the last 5% was the bane of our existence, causing mysterious crashes,
  buffer out-of-syncs. On top of that, hacking Neovim to integrate seamlessly
  with the rest of CodePerfect required an egregious set of duct-tape hacks that
  I was thrilled to finally get to delete.

  One of our big beliefs is that this kind of library-ification of software is a
  huge reason why modern software is slow and breaks all the time. Developers
  pick up some third-party library, entangle their program around it, and soon
  it's causing bugs and performance issues of the worst kind, the kind that's
  invisible and hidden behind a black box. Language servers have this problem:
  they have a nice API that gets you 95% of features, but as soon as you want to
  do out-of-the-ordinary things to design a 10x user experience, the interface
  breaks and you have to embark on a herculean debugging/duct-taping journey.

  One of our users pointed out that CodePerfect claims to eschew "things like
  language servers," but, isn't communicating with Neovim using JSON RPC over a
  pipe kind of like a language server? He was right, so we rewrote it.

- **Performance & resource usage improvements.** We profiled and sped up several
  key parts of the IDE, most notably the indexer, and cut down on the size of the
  in-memory index representation, which was our biggest memory eater.

- **New licensing system.** Previously our only option was a monthly
  subscription that would let you use the latest version of the IDE. Many users
  expressed their preference for a perpetual license with an optional
  subscription for automatic updates, so we implemented that.

- **Numerous bugfixes.**

  - Fixed jump to definition of field in struct literal not working.
  - Fixed jump to definition on package name. (It just jumps to itself.)
  - Fixed narrow bug where jump to definition on a) function parameter b) with
    generic type c) in a method declaration d) with a generic receiver was not
    working.
  - Fixed internal format of code index to distinguish between null and empty
    lists. This fixes a jump to definition bug in certain cases.
  - Fixed jump to definition on fields in struct and interface definition.
  - Fixed bug where certain Unicode characters weren't being rendered.
  - Fixed bug relating to `.check!` postfix completion.
  - Fixed modifier keys not being released after message boxes.keykeyboard
  - Fixed UI bug in debugger with goroutines flickering.
  - Fixed history not being preserved through `Rename` calls.
  - Fixed Organize Imports not preserving separation between standard imports
    and third-party imports.

- **Numerous minor features and improvements.**

  - Added `Close All Editors` command.
  - Improved scrolling for file explorer and other list-based windows.
  - Added commands and keyboard shortcuts for adjusting zoom level.
  - Handle multi-glyph graphemes correctly throughout app.
  - Turned `Copy` `Cut` `Paste` `Select All...` into commands.
  - Improved native per-file and project-wide search.
  - Improved handling of edit history.
  - Added support for formatting with `gofumpt` instead of `goimports`.
  - Improved buffer processing speeds significantly.
  - Added `Open Last Closed Editor` command.
  - Added updating search results in realtime while editing text.
  - Improved the way that we jump the cursor to new locations. Now it roughly
    mirrors Vim, which handles it quite nicely.
  - Improved quality of font rendering inside UI windows.
